Format the following terms and their definitions using this format:
    <glossentry id="ddl">
        <glossterm></glossterm>
        <glossdef></glossdef>
    </glossentry>
Acronym:

Definition: An abbreviation formed from the initial letters of a phrase or a series of words, often used in DITA content for concise representation.
Attribute:

Definition: A property or characteristic associated with an XML element, providing additional information about the element.
Authoring Tool:

Definition: Software used for creating, editing, and managing DITA content, providing a user-friendly interface for authors.
Block Element:

Definition: An XML element that can contain other elements, often used to define larger structural components in DITA.
Bookmap:

Definition: A DITA map specialization designed for authoring and organizing book-like content, such as manuals or guides.
Conref (Content Reference):

Definition: A mechanism in DITA that allows content to be reused by referencing it from one topic to another.
DITA (Darwin Information Typing Architecture):

Definition: An XML-based standard for creating and organizing modular and reusable content for technical documentation.
DITA Map:

Definition: A file that organizes and links together DITA topics, defining the structure and hierarchy of documentation.
Domain:

Definition: A specific area of knowledge or subject matter represented in DITA, often indicated by a specialized DTD or schema.
Element:

Definition: A fundamental building block in XML and DITA, representing a component of structured content.
Filter:

Definition: A mechanism to selectively include or exclude content during the publishing process based on specified criteria.
HTML5:

Definition: A markup language used for structuring and presenting content on the web, often integrated with DITA publishing.
Keyref:

Definition: A DITA feature that enables the reuse of key-based content references, facilitating consistent information across topics.
Learning and Training Specialization:

Definition: A DITA specialization tailored for creating instructional and training materials.
Linking:

Definition: The process of creating hyperlinks between DITA topics or other resources to establish connections and references.
Metadata:

Definition: Information about content, such as title, author, or keywords, providing context and facilitating organization.
Nested Element:

Definition: An XML element contained within another element, forming a hierarchical structure in DITA content.
Output Format:

Definition: The desired presentation or delivery format for DITA content, such as PDF, HTML, or other publishing outputs.
PDF2:

Definition: A DITA-OT transformation type for generating PDF output from DITA content.
Profile:

Definition: A predefined set of rules or configurations that can be applied to DITA content during processing.
Specialization:

Definition: The process of extending or customizing DITA to create domain-specific structures and rules.
Stub:

Definition: A placeholder topic in a DITA map, often used to reserve a location for future content.
Subject Scheme:

Definition: A controlled vocabulary or taxonomy used to categorize and organize DITA content.
Task Specialization:

Definition: A DITA specialization designed for creating procedural and instructional content, such as task-oriented topics.
Topic:

Definition: The fundamental unit of content in DITA, representing a standalone piece of information.
Transclusion:

Definition: The inclusion of content from one DITA topic into another using the <xref> element.
Uniform Resource Identifier (URI):

Definition: A string of characters used to identify and locate resources, such as DITA topics or images.
Variable:

Definition: A placeholder for values that can be dynamically replaced during the publishing process.
Versioning:

Definition: The management and tracking of different versions of DITA content, often used in collaborative authoring environments.
WYSIWYG (What You See Is What You Get):

Definition: An authoring mode in which the content appears as it will be presented in the final output, simplifying the editing process.
XHTML:

Definition: A markup language that extends HTML, providing compatibility with XML and used in DITA content for web-based outputs.